Abstract
   The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) provides a standard method for
   transporting multi-protocol datagrams over point-to-point links.  PPP
   is comprised of three main components:
      1. A method for encapsulating multi-protocol datagrams.
      2. A Link Control Protocol (LCP) for establishing, configuring,
         and testing the data-link connection.
      3. A family of Network Control Protocols (NCPs) for establishing
         and configuring different network-layer protocols.
   This document defines the PPP organization and methodology, and the
   PPP encapsulation, together with an extensible option negotiation
   mechanism which is able to negotiate a rich assortment of
   configuration parameters and provides additional management
   functions.  The PPP Link Control Protocol (LCP) is described in terms
   of this mechanism.
   1.  Introduction
   The Point-to-Point Protocol is designed for simple links which
   transport packets between two peers.  These links provide full-duplex
   simultaneous bi-directional operation, and are assumed to deliver
   packets in order.  It is intended that PPP provide a common solution
   for easy connection of a wide variety of hosts, bridges and routers
   [1].
   Encapsulation
      The PPP encapsulation provides for multiplexing of different
      network-layer protocols simultaneously over the same link.  The
      PPP encapsulation has been carefully designed to retain
      compatibility with most commonly used supporting hardware.
      Only 8 additional octets are necessary to form the encapsulation
      when used within the default HDLC-like framing.  In environments
      where bandwidth is at a premium, the encapsulation and framing may
      be shortened to 2 or 4 octets.
      To support high speed implementations, the default encapsulation
      uses only simple fields, only one of which needs to be examined
      for demultiplexing.  The default header and information fields
      fall on 32-bit boundaries, and the trailer may be padded to an
      arbitrary boundary.
   Configuration
      It is intended that PPP links be easy to configure.  By design,
      the standard defaults handle all common configurations.  The
      implementor can specify improvements to the default configuration,
      which are automatically communicated to the peer without operator
      intervention.  Finally, the operator may explicitly configure
      options for the link which enable the link to operate in
      environments where it would otherwise be impossible.
      This self-configuration is implemented through an extensible
      option negotiation mechanism, wherein each end of the link
      describes to the other its capabilities and requirements.
      Although the option negotiation mechanism described in this
      document is specified in terms of the Link Control Protocol (LCP),
      the same facilities are designed to be used by other control
      protocols, especially the family of NCPs.      
   Information Field
      The Information field is zero or more octets.  The Information
      field contains the datagram for the protocol specified in the
      Protocol field.
      The maximum length for the Information field, including Padding,
      but not including the Protocol field, is termed the Maximum
      Receive Unit (MRU), which defaults to 1500 octets.  By
      negotiation, consenting PPP implementations may use other values
      for the MRU.
3.5.  Authentication Phase
   On some links it may be desirable to require a peer to authenticate
   itself before allowing network-layer protocol packets to be
   exchanged.
   By default, authentication is not mandatory.  If an implementation
   desires that the peer authenticate with some specific authentication
   protocol, then it MUST request the use of that authentication
   protocol during Link Establishment phase.
   Authentication SHOULD take place as soon as possible after link
   establishment.  However, link quality determination MAY occur
   concurrently.  An implementation MUST NOT allow the exchange of link
   quality determination packets to delay authentication indefinitely.
   Advancement from the Authentication phase to the Network-Layer
   Protocol phase MUST NOT occur until authentication has completed.  If
   authentication fails, the authenticator SHOULD proceed instead to the
   Link Termination phase.
   Only Link Control Protocol, authentication protocol, and link quality
   monitoring packets are allowed during this phase.  All other packets
   received during this phase MUST be silently discarded.     
   The receipt of the LCP Configure-Request causes a return to the Link
   Establishment phase from the Network-Layer Protocol phase or   