      In particular, the following new optional commands are included in
      this edition of the specification:
         CDUP - Change to Parent Directory
         SMNT - Structure Mount
         STOU - Store Unique
         RMD - Remove Directory
         MKD - Make Directory
         PWD - Print Directory
         SYST - System
         A reply is an acknowledgment (positive or negative) sent from
         server to user via the control connection in response to FTP
         commands.  The general form of a reply is a completion code
         (including error codes) followed by a text string.  The codes
         are for use by programs and the text is usually intended for
         human users.
   3.1.  DATA REPRESENTATION AND STORAGE
      Data is transferred from a storage device in the sending host to a
      storage device in the receiving host.  Often it is necessary to
      perform certain transformations on the data because data storage
      representations in the two systems are different.  For example,
      NVT-ASCII has different data storage representations in different
      systems.  DEC TOPS-20s's generally store NVT-ASCII as five 7-bit
      ASCII characters, left-justified in a 36-bit word. IBM Mainframe's
      store NVT-ASCII as 8-bit EBCDIC codes.  Multics stores NVT-ASCII
      as four 9-bit characters in a 36-bit word.  It is desirable to
      convert characters into the standard NVT-ASCII representation when
      transmitting text between dissimilar systems.  The sending and
      receiving sites would have to perform the necessary
      transformations between the standard representation and their
      internal representations.
            3.1.1.5.2.  CARRIAGE CONTROL (ASA)
               The file contains ASA (FORTRAN) vertical format control
               characters.  (See RFC 740 Appendix C; and Communications
               of the ACM, Vol. 7, No. 10, p. 606, October 1964.)  In a
               line or a record formatted according to the ASA Standard,
               the first character is not to be printed.  Instead, it
               should be used to determine the vertical movement of the
               paper which should take place before the rest of the
               record is printed.
               The ASA Standard specifies the following control
               characters:
         3.1.2.3.  PAGE STRUCTURE
            To transmit files that are discontinuous, FTP defines a page
            structure.  Files of this type are sometimes known as
            "random access files" or even as "holey files".  In these
            files there is sometimes other information associated with
            the file as a whole (e.g., a file descriptor), or with a
            section of the file (e.g., page access controls), or both.
            In FTP, the sections of the file are called pages.
            To provide for various page sizes and associated
            information, each page is sent with a page header.  The page
            header has the following defined fields:Data Length
                  The number of logical bytes in the page data.  The
                  minimum data length is 0.
               Page Type
                  The type of page this is.  The following page types
                  are defined:
                     0 = Last Page
                        This is used to indicate the end of a paged
                        structured transmission.  The header length must
                        be 4, and the data length must be 0.
                     1 = Simple Page
                        This is the normal type for simple paged files
                        with no page level associated control
                        information.  The header length must be 4.
                     2 = Descriptor Page
                        This type is used to transmit the descriptive
                        information for the file as a whole.
                     3 = Access Controlled Page
                        This type includes an additional header field
                        for paged files with page level access control
                        information.  The header length must be 5.
               Optional Fields
                  Further header fields may be used to supply per page
                  control information, for example, per page access
                  control.
            All fields are one logical byte in length.  The logical byte
            size is specified by the TYPE command.  See Appendix I for
            further details and a specific case at the page structure.
      is when the user-DTP is sending the data in a transfer mode that
      requires the connection to be closed to indicate EOF.  The server
      MUST close the data connection under the following conditions:
         1. The server has completed sending data in a transfer mode
            that requires a close to indicate EOF.
         2. The server receives an ABORT command from the user.
         3. The port specification is changed by a command from the user.
         4. The control connection is closed legally or otherwise.
         5. An irrecoverable error condition occurs.            